Add VOF theory guide (#813)
lethe-cfd/lethe: doc/source/theory/fluid_dynamics/vof.rst

The Volume of Fluid (VOF) method
#############################################

> Numerous exemples of flow encountered in engineering involve multiple fluids: sloshing of fuel in aircraft tanks, mixing of bread dough, and motion of droplets and bubbles to name a few. In these cases, the involved fluids can be immiscible, and we are interested in the evolution of the interfaces between the fluids.

Reviewer: Our VOF implementation really is more like a conservative level set implementation. Maybe it would be time to rename it to CLS instead of VOF?

  \frac{\partial \phi}{\partial t} + \nabla \cdot \left( \vec{u} \phi \right) = 0 \quad \forall (\vec{x},t)\in \Omega\times[0,T]

or using `Einstein notation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Einstein_notation>`_:

.. math::
  \partial_t \phi + \partial_i \phi u_i = 0 \quad \forall (x_i,t)\in \Omega\times[0,T]

Developing the second term gives:

.. math::
  \partial_t \phi + \phi\partial_i u_i + u_i\partial_i\phi = 0 \quad \forall (x_i,t)\in \Omega\times[0,T]

Typically, the term :math:`\phi\partial_i u_i` (or :math:`\phi \nabla \cdot \vec{u}`) is zero due to mass conservation in the Navier-Stokes equations. However, previous work done in Lethe showed that while :math:`\nabla \cdot \vec{u}=0` is globally respected, it is not locally respected, especially around the interface, so lets keep it for now.

To complete the strong formulation of the problem, let's impose a no flux boundary condition on :math:`\partial \Omega`:

.. math::
  \partial_i \phi n_i= 0 \quad \forall (x_i,t)\in \partial \Omega\times[0,T]

where :math:`n_i` represent the outward pointing unit normal vector of :math:`\partial \Omega`, i.e., :math:`\vec{n}`.

Finite element formulation
---------------------------

> To obtain the finite element formulation, we first need the weak formulation. Therefore, let :math:`v` be an arbitrary continous scalar function on :math:`\Omega`. To obtained the weak form, we multiply the strong problem by :math:`v` and integrate over :math:`\Omega`:

Reviewer: v should be in L^2,  theoretically it does not even need to be continuous (and it is not when we have SUPG, SUPG makes v discontinuous :)!)

.. math::
  \int_\Omega v \left( \partial_t \phi + \phi\partial_i u_i + u_i\partial_i\phi\right) d \Omega = 0

> To insure that those integrals are well defined in :math:`\Omega`, we chose the appropriate solution spaces:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that those integrals are well defined in :math:`\Omega`, we chose the appropriate solution spaces:
```
I think?

.. math::
  \phi \in \Phi(\Omega) = H^1(\Omega)

.. math::
  v \in V(\Omega) = H^1(\Omega)

Since :math:`\Phi=V`, the weak problem is:

Find :math:`\phi \in V \times [0,T]` such that

.. math::
  \int_\Omega v \left( \partial_t \phi + \phi\partial_i u_i + u_i\partial_i\phi\right) d \Omega = 0 \quad \forall v\in V

Using Galerkin method, the finite element formulation reads:

Find :math:`\phi^h \in V^h \times [0,T]` such that

.. math::
  \int_\Omega v^h \left( \partial_t \phi^h + \phi^h\partial_i u_i + u_i\partial_i\phi^h\right) d \Omega = 0 \quad \forall v^h\in V^h\times [0,T]

where :math:`V^h` is the finite element space, and :math:`\phi^h(\vec{x},t) = \sum_{j=1}^N \phi_j(t)\psi_j(\vec{x})`. In standard notation, this formulation corresponds to:

Find :math:`\phi^h \in V^h \times [0,T]` such that

.. math::
  \int_\Omega v^h \left(\frac{\partial \phi^h}{\partial t} + \phi^h \nabla \cdot \vec{u} + \vec{u}\cdot \nabla \phi^h \right) d \Omega = 0 \quad \forall v^h\in V^h\times [0,T]

Stabilization
--------------

> The numerical resolution of the advection equation requires stabilization because of its purely convective character. Furthermore, a second stabilization term is added to improve the capturing of the interface due to sharp gradient across :math:`\Gamma` and perpendicular to the streamlines. To that end, a Discontinuity-Capturing Directional Dissipation (DCDD) shock capturing scheme is used [`2 <https://doi.org/10.1002/fld.505>`_]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The numerical resolution of the advection equation requires stabilization because of its purely advective character, which makes the equation hyperbolic. Furthermore, a second stabilization term is added to improve the capturing of the interface due to sharp gradient across :math:`\Gamma` . Since SUPG only adds diffusion along the streamlines, crosswind oscillation may occur if no appropriate shock capturing scheme are used. To that end, a Discontinuity-Capturing Directional Dissipation (DCDD) shock capturing scheme is used [`2 <https://doi.org/10.1002/fld.505>`_]:
```

Normal and curvature computations
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The following equations are used to compute the filtered phase fraction gradient and filtered curvature. They correspond to the projection steps previously mentioned.

.. math::

    \int_\Omega \left( {\bf{v}} \cdot {\bf{\psi}} + \eta_n \nabla {\bf{v}} \cdot \nabla {\bf{\psi}} \right) d\Omega = \int_\Omega \left( {\bf{v}} \cdot \nabla {\phi} \right) d\Omega

where :math:`{\bf{v}}` is a vector test function, :math:`\bf{\psi}` is the filtered phase fraction gradient, :math:`\eta_n` is the phase fraction gradient filter value, and :math:`\phi` is the phase fraction.

.. math::

    \int_\Omega \left( v \kappa + \eta_\kappa \nabla v \cdot \nabla \kappa \right) d\Omega = \int_\Omega \left( \nabla v \cdot \frac{\bf{\psi}}{|\bf{\psi}|} \right) d\Omega

where :math:`\kappa` is the filtered curvature, and :math:`\eta_\kappa` is the curvature filter value, and :math:`v` is a test function.

The phase fraction gradient filter :math:`\eta_n` and the curvature filter value :math:`\eta_\kappa` are respectively computed according to:

.. math::

  \eta_n = \alpha h^2

  \eta_\kappa = \beta h^2

> where :math:`\alpha` and :math:`\beta` are user-defined factors, and :math:`h` is the cell size.

Reviewer 2: Do you have a recommendation for these parameters values?
